[Genetic/Transhuman Era Civlo Text]


With the deciphering of the mysteries of human life at the hands of researchers involved in the Human Genome Project, the Genetic Age built on the solid foundation of scientific achievement established in the Modern Age.  What distinguished the Genetic Age from the Modern Age was an collective increase in responsibility towards humanity and the environment.  Whereas technology continued to streamline the process of manufacturing, it also found equally powerful ways to help curb pollution.  Human mastery of the physical world continued at breakneck pace with the applications of chaos theory and unified physics.  More than anything else, the achievements of the Genetic Age began to blur the lines between human and machine.  Neural interfaces enabled people to control computers with their thoughts.  Medical scientists began to apply their knowledge of genetics towards not only the eradication of disease but the customization of all forms of life.  As the computer revolutionized the lives of people in the 20th century, so did genetics irrevocably alter life in the 21st century.


----------------------


[Diamond Era Civlo Text]
The Diamond Age was a period of intense scientific breakthroughs.  With the perfecting of nanotechnology and further developments in genetics, human beings possessed power over their lives and their worlds in ways that seemed unfathomable in previous centuries.  Human cloning and life extension enabled people to achieve immortality, as the limitations of the physical body no longer presented an obstacle.   More than any other science, nanotechnology affected the lives of citizens most profoundly.  Sub-microscopic machines called nanites could manipulate molecules, seek out nuclear weapons, eat pollution, release toxins and countless other tasks.  With the aid of nanites, entire cities were constructed underwater.  The power of nanites manifest in two disparate realms, however, and represented both the future and the demise of human life.  The Gaia Controller had the power to grant a new utopia in the world, by providing limitless supplies of resources.  However, Eco-Rangers could just as easily obliterate entire cities in a matter of minutes, leaving behind only pristine wilderness.  Though some saw this as a triumph, others feared the day that human beings sought to undue six millennia of evolution, progress and creation.  For all of its technological breakthroughs, the Diamond Age represented a world at a crossroads.  With the power of eternal life, limitless energy, and an end to material scarcity, people were finally in control of every aspect of their own destinies.  The only question that remained was whether people would live in peace or ultimately destroy themselves in the acts of nanotechnological war.
[END]